Testament diff rework - unstructured, structured (#206)
nim-works/nimskull: doc/testament.rst

Writing Tests
=============

> ``description`` - textual description of the test. **Highly** recomended to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
``description`` - textual description of the test. **Highly** recommended -
```

> add one - in the future testament might use this to provide better teardown

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in the future testament might use this to provide better teardown
```

reports, or notify about ``knownIssue`` state transitions.

Test execution options
----------------------

> - ``action`` - What actions to expect completion on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``action`` - what action(s) to execute and expect.
```

  - ``"compile"``: expect successful compilation
  - ``"run"``: expect successful compilation and execution
  - ``"reject"``: expect failed compilation. The "reject" action can catch
    `{.error.}` pragmas but not `{.fatal.}` pragmas because `{.fatal.}` pragmas
    guarantee that compilation will be aborted.

- ``batchable``: Can be run in batch mode, or not.

- ``joinable``: Can be run Joined with other tests to run all togheter, or
  not. Defaults to `true`

- ``timeout`` Timeout seconds to run the test. Fractional values are supported.

> - ``cmd``: Command the test should use to run. If left out or an empty

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``cmd``: Command used to run the test. If left out or an empty
```

  string is provided, the command is taken to be: ``"nim $target --hints:on
  -d:testing --nimblePath:build/deps/pkgs $options $file"`` You can use the
  ``$target``, ``$options``, and ``$file`` placeholders in your own
  command, too.

  example: ``"nim c -r $file"``

> - ``targets`` Targets to run the test into (c, cpp, objc, js).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ``targets`` supported backend compilation targets for the test (c, cpp, objc, js).
```

* Has some built-in CI compatibility, like Azure Pipelines, etc.
* `Testament supports inlined error messages on tests, basically comments with the expected error directly on the code. <https://github.com/nim-works/nimskull/blob/9a110047cbe2826b1d4afe63e3a1f5a08422b73f/tests/effects/teffects1.nim>`_

Reading test outputs
====================

Testament supports two different modes of interaction with the compiler -
structured and unstructured. Unstructured interaction mode (currently
default) allows user to specify exact compiler output that should be

> produced by input file and then compares it based on the ``nimoutFull``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
produced by the test and then compares it based on ``nimoutFull``
```

configuration options.

> If tests are mismatched, failure message is generated, showing failed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a mismatch, a failure message is generated, showing the
```

diffs.

.. code-block::

    discard """
    nimout: '''
    Expected unstructured compiler output
    '''
    """

    static:
      echo "Expected unstructured output"

In that case comparison is performed between two regular string blocks.
Since each entry is not wide enough (not wider than current terminal) they
are printed side-by side to make it easier to spot the difference.
Mismatches are also highlighted in the terminal.

.. code-block:: diff

    - Expected unstructured compiler output   + Expected unstructured output
    -                                         ?

.. note:: expected (on the left) outout has two lines deleted - trailing
          ``'''`` in the testament spec is placed on the next line, so it
          is considered to be a string literal of ``"Expected unstructured
          compiler output\n"``

Structured mismatches
---------------------

> In structured output mode, compiler writes out S-expressions for each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In structured output mode, the compiler writes out S-expressions for each
```

output diagnostic entry, one per line.

If testament is used in structured mode, all expected compiler reports -
both inline and written in ``nimout`` are collected in a single list that

> is matched against produced output directly. Failure message shows best

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is matched against produced output directly. The failure message shows the best
```

> possible mismatch annotations for the given output. For example, given test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
possible mismatch annotations for the given output. For example, given the test
```

> like this, testament output will contain two mismatches for both failures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
below, testament output will contain two mismatches for both failures.
```

the best possible mapping is presented as an error ('best' because it is
generally impossible to find correct place to insert inline annotation
somewhere in ``nimout``, without potentially messing up ordering.
Unstructured output simply sets inline annotations to a higher priority and
searches for them first)

.. code-block:: nim

    Expected inline Hint annotation at tfile.nim(11, 7):

    - (User :location ("tfile.nim" 11 7) :severity Hint :str "Another hint")

    Given:

    + (User :location ("tfile.nim" 11 6) :severity Hint :str "Another hint")

      :location[2] expected 7, but got 6 ([7->6])

    Expected:

    - (User :location ("tfile.nim" 8 _) :str "User Hint")

    Given:

    + (User :location ("tfile.nim" 9 6) :severity Hint :str "User hint")

      :str expected "User Hint", but got "User hint" ("User [Hint"->hint"])
      :location[1] expected 8, but got 9 ([8->9])

Compiler printed reports

.. code-block:: nim

    (User :severity Hint :str "User hint" :location ("tfile.nim" 8 6))
    (User :severity Hint :str "Another hint" :location ("tfile.nim" 10 6))

And they were matched against full list of expected entries. For the first

> entry there is a mismatch in ``:location[2]``, and for secdon one there is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
entry there is a mismatch in ``:location[2]``, and for second one there is
```
